Canyon Living: Riding Horses

One might assume that marrying a rancher, I would don this attire every day and grill steaks for dinner every night. Not exactly. In fact, Friday I went on my first ride in nearly a decade. Though I grew up in a ranching family, I let the men ride while I stayed home to sew outfits and drink sun tea. After I left for college, I used to bring friends down to brand in May so I rode along with my squealing-in-delight gal pals once a year. Even that has dwindled in the last few years as I took up hiking and skiing instead of branding.

This past Friday morning, I dressed in my best cowgirl attire including the new (and only) straw hat I own. I put on a long sleeved shirt and jeans to protect me from the sun and boots to protect me from the elements. We started by gathering the horses which took a little under half an hour since Zip did not want to be corralled and saddled (I wonder that they don't name these horses something more soothing like Peaceful Morning if they want them to behave). Once the horses, saddled and bridled, loaded up in the trailer, we were off to the pasture east to get some strays before moving cattle closer to the house (a mere five mile ride). I found an old favorite bay horse named Tivio to be my perfect companion. We rode along enjoying the day while the men opened gates and went after ornery steers. By the end of several hours, I had only a sore knee to keep me company (and we did grill steaks and fresh zucchini for lunch). I'd say more riding is in my future. I loved the time out in nature and with my husband.

Too bad work starts for me next week! What a change it will be from the swelling charter school I started in twelve years ago. I will have six preps but only 24 total students. What an adventure!  Ironically, I will be teaching many of the same plays and stories I taught in the "big city" of Springs too. Teaching will be a nice way for me to forge friendships in the community and contribute. Looking forward to it!